README.md, before:

# Link to demo/walkthrough video:

https://youtu.be/CvR6jDlQnB8
<br>
<br>

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Naereen/StrapDown.js.svg)](https://github.com/Naereen/StrapDown.js/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/692868088.svg)](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10023046)
[![made-with-python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python-1f425f.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
![GitHub last commit (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/main)
[![Python application](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/python-app.yml)
[![pylint](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyLint-7.11-orange?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/actions/runs/11578074144)
[![autopep8](./autopep8.svg)](https://github.com/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/actions/runs/11578074144)
[![Tests On Push](http://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/unit_test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/unit_test.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp?branch=develop)
![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp)

<!--Badges-->
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/fork" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp/forks"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/stargazers" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp stars"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp issues"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" alt="FitnessApp issues closed"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/pulls" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="cheapBuy pull-requests"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/graphs/contributors" alt="Contributors">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/graphs/commit-activity" alt="commit activity">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" alt="repo size">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

# BurnOut

![WhatsApp Image 2021-09-28 at 2 48 00 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25662536/135546154-cfae1d2e-439a-4edc-b0bb-57f693ef5a83.jpeg)

# BurnOut - Your Wellness Companion

BurnOut is an easy-to-use application designed to help users manage their daily calorie intake and expenditure, and it has now been enhanced with additional features. This all-in-one wellness app is not only a user-friendly calorie tracker but also offers a comprehensive suite of tools to support individuals in achieving their fitness and weight management goals.

<img src = "https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/assets/145216300/e4fc29ea-253c-4bfc-803c-80bf55193044" width="700px">


## Key Features:

1. **Calorie Tracking:** BurnOut allows users to effortlessly keep track of their daily calorie intake and calories burnt through physical activities, helping them maintain a healthy lifestyle.

2. **Profile Customization:** Users can personalize their profiles by entering their height, weight, fitness goals (weight loss or gain), and target weight. This information is crucial for creating tailored fitness and dietary plans.

3. **Fitness Programs:** BurnOut offers a variety of fitness programs, including yoga classes and workout sessions, catering to users with different fitness preferences and skill levels.

4. **Social Connectivity:** The application facilitates social interaction among users. They can connect with friends by sending and accepting friend requests, enabling them to share their fitness journeys and progress, and provide support and motivation to one another.

5. **Favorite Workouts:** Users can now add their favorite workouts to a dedicated list for quick and easy access, making it convenient to stick to their preferred exercise routines.

6. **BMI Calculator:** The newly added BMI (Body Mass Index) calculator helps users understand their current physical health status and aids in setting realistic weight management goals.

7. **Tracking User History:** BurnOut enables users to maintain a history of their fitness and dietary activities, providing insights into their progress over time and allowing for data-driven adjustments.

8. **Reviews:** Users can leave reviews and feedback on the fitness programs they've participated in, sharing their experiences with the community and helping others make informed choices.

This document serves as a comprehensive reference point for users, giving them insight into the functionalities of BurnOut and encouraging them to participate in its development as an open-source software project. As an open-source project, the community can contribute additional features and enhancements to make BurnOut even more robust and tailored to individual needs before its official market release. Furthermore, it assists developers by providing a clear understanding of the codebase and serves as a valuable resource for the project's continued development.

# Table of Contents

- [Link to demo/walkthrough video:](#link-to-demowalkthrough-video)
- [BurnOut](#burnout)
- [BurnOut - Your Wellness Companion](#burnout---your-wellness-companion)
  - [Key Features:](#key-features)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Why use BurnOut?](#why-use-burnout)
- [TechStack Used for the Development of Project](#techstack-used-for-the-development-of-project)
- [Core Functionalities of the Application](#core-functionalities-of-the-application)
  - [Register](#register)
  - [Login](#login)
  - [Dashboard](#dashboard)
  - [Excercise Section](#excercise-section)
  - [Must Try Workout Section](#must-try-workout-section)
  - [Popular Workout Section](#popular-workout-section)
  - [Enter Calories](#enter-calories)
  - [Check History](#check-history)
  - [Add Friends](#add-friends)
  - [Calculate BMI](#calculate-bmi)
  - [Add an Excercise to Favourites](#add-an-excercise-to-favourites)
  - [Submit a Review](#submit-a-review)
  - [View User Profile](#view-user-profile)
  - [View User Profile 2.0](#view-user-profile-20)
  - [Update Your Profile](#update-your-profile)
- [Steps for execution](#steps-for-execution)
      - [Set up Project](#set-up-project)
      - [Create Google Client Credentials](#create-google-client-credentials)
      - [Start the application](#start-the-application)
      - [Backgroun Tasks](#backgroun-tasks)
- [Source Code](#source-code)
- [Future Scope](#future-scope)
- [Team Members](#team-members)
- [Contribution](#contribution)
- [License](#license)

# Why use BurnOut?

- User can keep a track of their calorie intake.
- User just needs to input the food they've had, calories get calculated automatically.
- Displays a record of calories in and calories burnt out day wise in History tab.
- Users can connect with their friends and keep track of each other's progress
- Enrollment into numerous yoga and workout sessions.
- Daily automated reminders for working out and exercising.
- Accessible to everyone and easy to use.

# TechStack Used for the Development of Project

<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c3/Python-logo-notext.svg" alt="python" width="20" height="20"/> Python </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original.svg" alt="mongo" width="20" height="20"/> MongoDB </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-plain.svg" alt="html" width="20" height="20"> CSS3 </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-plain.svg" alt="css" width="20" height="20"> HTML 5 </br>

# Core Functionalities of the Application

## Register

<img src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/main/static/img/registerPic.PNG>

## Login

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/loginPic.PNG>

## Dashboard

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/dashboardPic.PNG>

## Excercise Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/excercisePic.PNG>

## Must Try Workout Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/musttryworkoutPic.PNG>

## Popular Workout Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/popularworkoutPic.PNG>

## Enter Calories

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/historyPic.PNG>

## Check History

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/caloriesPic.PNG>

## Add Friends

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/friendsPic.PNG>

## Calculate BMI

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/bmiPic.PNG>

## Add an Excercise to Favourites

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/favPic.PNG>

## Submit a Review

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/reviewPic.jpeg>

## View User Profile

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/profile1.0.jpeg>

## View User Profile 2.0

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/profile2.0.jpeg>

## Update Your Profile

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/updateProfile.jpeg>


# Steps for execution
#### Set up Project 
- Install MongoDB using the following link:

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows

- Git Clone the Repository

  `git clone https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp.git`
  

- Install the required packages by running the following command in the terminal

  `pip install -r requirements.txt`


- Create a `.env` file in the root folder and paste the content as found in `.env.example`. Populate the fields with your own credentials
  
- Run the following command in the terminal
  `pip install -r requirements.txt`


- Create a `.env` file in the root folder and paste the content as found in `.env.example`. Populate the fields with your own credentials
#### Create Google Client Credentials
- First, note that you will need a Google Account. You already have one if you use Gmail.

- Go to the [Google developers credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials).

- Once in, you may be prompted to agree to their terms of service. Should you agree to those, press the Create credentials button on the next page. Select the option for OAuth client ID:
![Google Credentials Page](docs/google_crendentials.jpg)
- Select the Web application option at the top. You can provide a name for the client in the Name field as well. The name you provide will be displayed to users when they are consenting to your application acting on their behalf.

- if you’ll be running your web application locally for now, so you can set the Authorized JavaScript origins to https://127.0.0.1:5000 and Authorized redirect URIs to https://127.0.0.1:5000/login/callback. This will allow your local Flask application to communicate with Google.

- Finally, hit Create and take note of the client ID and client secret. You’ll need both later. You may also download the config file as json and update you `.env` file with the required fields
  #### Start the application
- Run the following command in the terminal

  ```
  export FLASK_APP=fitnessapp && export FLASK_ENV=development && FLASK_DEBUG=1 && flask run
  ```
- Open the URL in your browser:  ` http://127.0.0.1:5000/`
  
#### Backgroun Tasks
- Make sure you have RabitMQ installed and running on your system
- Run the following command to start celery worker and beat for email-reminders

  ```
  celery -A make_celery worker -B --loglevel=info
  ```   
- Note that for email reminders to work, make sure you have created an events in your database and their date is equalt to date of current date. 



```
NOTE!!:
Make sure you have redis install on your local machine for background tasks with celery to work. see https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/install/

If you get error regarding any of the following packages - pymongo and bson, then dont worry we have also been there. Run the following commands to resolve the error :

    pip uninstall bson
    pip uninstall pymongo
    pip install pymongo


```
# Source Code

Link to the repository:
https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp

# Future Scope

1. Bug fixes
2. Timer for every workout
3. Email verification
4. Login with social media
5. Bot updates

# Team Members

<center>
  <table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center"><img src="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/IMG-8118.jpg" width="300px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Left to Right -  <a href="https://github.com/nayaksyndrome">Chinmay Nayak</a>,  <a href="https://github.com/Shubham-Saboo">Shubham Saboo</a>, <a href="https://github.com/RajatChandak2000">  Rajat Chandak</a>,  <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo">Vibhav Deo</a></b></sub><br /></td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</center>

# Contribution

Please refer the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file for instructions on how to contribute to our repository.

  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues/new/choose">Report Bug</a>
    /
    <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues/new/choose">Request Feature</a>
  </p>

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

add updated command for running on https

README.md, after:

# Link to demo/walkthrough video:

https://youtu.be/CvR6jDlQnB8
<br>
<br>

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Naereen/StrapDown.js.svg)](https://github.com/Naereen/StrapDown.js/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/692868088.svg)](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10023046)
[![made-with-python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python-1f425f.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
![GitHub last commit (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/main)
[![Python application](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/python-app.yml)
[![pylint](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyLint-7.11-orange?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/actions/runs/11578074144)
[![autopep8](./autopep8.svg)](https://github.com/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/actions/runs/11578074144)
[![Tests On Push](http://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/unit_test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/actions/workflows/unit_test.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/CSC510-GROUP-40/FitnessApp?branch=develop)
![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp)

<!--Badges-->
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/fork" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp/forks"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/stargazers" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp stars"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="FitnessApp issues"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" alt="FitnessApp issues closed"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/pulls" target="blank">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp?style=flat-square" alt="cheapBuy pull-requests"/>
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/graphs/contributors" alt="Contributors">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

<a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/graphs/commit-activity" alt="commit activity">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" alt="repo size">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp" /></a>

# BurnOut

![WhatsApp Image 2021-09-28 at 2 48 00 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25662536/135546154-cfae1d2e-439a-4edc-b0bb-57f693ef5a83.jpeg)

# BurnOut - Your Wellness Companion

BurnOut is an easy-to-use application designed to help users manage their daily calorie intake and expenditure, and it has now been enhanced with additional features. This all-in-one wellness app is not only a user-friendly calorie tracker but also offers a comprehensive suite of tools to support individuals in achieving their fitness and weight management goals.

<img src = "https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/assets/145216300/e4fc29ea-253c-4bfc-803c-80bf55193044" width="700px">


## Key Features:

1. **Calorie Tracking:** BurnOut allows users to effortlessly keep track of their daily calorie intake and calories burnt through physical activities, helping them maintain a healthy lifestyle.

2. **Profile Customization:** Users can personalize their profiles by entering their height, weight, fitness goals (weight loss or gain), and target weight. This information is crucial for creating tailored fitness and dietary plans.

3. **Fitness Programs:** BurnOut offers a variety of fitness programs, including yoga classes and workout sessions, catering to users with different fitness preferences and skill levels.

4. **Social Connectivity:** The application facilitates social interaction among users. They can connect with friends by sending and accepting friend requests, enabling them to share their fitness journeys and progress, and provide support and motivation to one another.

5. **Favorite Workouts:** Users can now add their favorite workouts to a dedicated list for quick and easy access, making it convenient to stick to their preferred exercise routines.

6. **BMI Calculator:** The newly added BMI (Body Mass Index) calculator helps users understand their current physical health status and aids in setting realistic weight management goals.

7. **Tracking User History:** BurnOut enables users to maintain a history of their fitness and dietary activities, providing insights into their progress over time and allowing for data-driven adjustments.

8. **Reviews:** Users can leave reviews and feedback on the fitness programs they've participated in, sharing their experiences with the community and helping others make informed choices.

This document serves as a comprehensive reference point for users, giving them insight into the functionalities of BurnOut and encouraging them to participate in its development as an open-source software project. As an open-source project, the community can contribute additional features and enhancements to make BurnOut even more robust and tailored to individual needs before its official market release. Furthermore, it assists developers by providing a clear understanding of the codebase and serves as a valuable resource for the project's continued development.

# Table of Contents

- [Link to demo/walkthrough video:](#link-to-demowalkthrough-video)
- [BurnOut](#burnout)
- [BurnOut - Your Wellness Companion](#burnout---your-wellness-companion)
  - [Key Features:](#key-features)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Why use BurnOut?](#why-use-burnout)
- [TechStack Used for the Development of Project](#techstack-used-for-the-development-of-project)
- [Core Functionalities of the Application](#core-functionalities-of-the-application)
  - [Register](#register)
  - [Login](#login)
  - [Dashboard](#dashboard)
  - [Excercise Section](#excercise-section)
  - [Must Try Workout Section](#must-try-workout-section)
  - [Popular Workout Section](#popular-workout-section)
  - [Enter Calories](#enter-calories)
  - [Check History](#check-history)
  - [Add Friends](#add-friends)
  - [Calculate BMI](#calculate-bmi)
  - [Add an Excercise to Favourites](#add-an-excercise-to-favourites)
  - [Submit a Review](#submit-a-review)
  - [View User Profile](#view-user-profile)
  - [View User Profile 2.0](#view-user-profile-20)
  - [Update Your Profile](#update-your-profile)
- [Steps for execution](#steps-for-execution)
      - [Set up Project](#set-up-project)
      - [Create Google Client Credentials](#create-google-client-credentials)
      - [Start the application](#start-the-application)
- [Source Code](#source-code)
- [Future Scope](#future-scope)
- [Team Members](#team-members)
- [Contribution](#contribution)
- [License](#license)

# Why use BurnOut?

- User can keep a track of their calorie intake.
- User just needs to input the food they've had, calories get calculated automatically.
- Displays a record of calories in and calories burnt out day wise in History tab.
- Users can connect with their friends and keep track of each other's progress
- Enrollment into numerous yoga and workout sessions.
- Daily automated reminders for working out and exercising.
- Accessible to everyone and easy to use.

# TechStack Used for the Development of Project

<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c3/Python-logo-notext.svg" alt="python" width="20" height="20"/> Python </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original.svg" alt="mongo" width="20" height="20"/> MongoDB </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-plain.svg" alt="html" width="20" height="20"> CSS3 </br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-plain.svg" alt="css" width="20" height="20"> HTML 5 </br>

# Core Functionalities of the Application

## Register

<img src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/main/static/img/registerPic.PNG>

## Login

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/loginPic.PNG>

## Dashboard

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/dashboardPic.PNG>

## Excercise Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/excercisePic.PNG>

## Must Try Workout Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/musttryworkoutPic.PNG>

## Popular Workout Section

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/popularworkoutPic.PNG>

## Enter Calories

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/historyPic.PNG>

## Check History

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/caloriesPic.PNG>

## Add Friends

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/friendsPic.PNG>

## Calculate BMI

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/bmiPic.PNG>

## Add an Excercise to Favourites

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/favPic.PNG>

## Submit a Review

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/reviewPic.jpeg>

## View User Profile

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/profile1.0.jpeg>

## View User Profile 2.0

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/profile2.0.jpeg>

## Update Your Profile

<img src=https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/updateProfile.jpeg>


# Steps for execution
#### Set up Project 
- Install MongoDB using the following link:

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows

- Git Clone the Repository

  `git clone https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp.git`
  

- Install the required packages by running the following command in the terminal

  `pip install -r requirements.txt`


- Create a `.env` file in the root folder and paste the content as found in `.env.example`. Populate the fields with your own credentials
  
- Run the following command in the terminal
  `pip install -r requirements.txt`


- Create a `.env` file in the root folder and paste the content as found in `.env.example`. Populate the fields with your own credentials
#### Create Google Client Credentials
- First, note that you will need a Google Account. You already have one if you use Gmail.

- Go to the [Google developers credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials).

- Once in, you may be prompted to agree to their terms of service. Should you agree to those, press the Create credentials button on the next page. Select the option for OAuth client ID:
![Google Credentials Page](docs/google_crendentials.jpg)
- Select the Web application option at the top. You can provide a name for the client in the Name field as well. The name you provide will be displayed to users when they are consenting to your application acting on their behalf.

- if you’ll be running your web application locally for now, so you can set the Authorized JavaScript origins to https://127.0.0.1:5000 and Authorized redirect URIs to https://127.0.0.1:5000/login/callback. This will allow your local Flask application to communicate with Google.

- Finally, hit Create and take note of the client ID and client secret. You’ll need both later. You may also download the config file as json and update you `.env` file with the required fields
  #### Start the application
- Run the following command in the terminal

  ```
  export FLASK_APP=fitnessapp && export FLASK_ENV=development && FLASK_DEBUG=1 && flask run
  ```
- Open the URL in your browser:  ` http://127.0.0.1:5000/`

- For Google Sign In to work, run the app on `https` using the command below:
````
export FLASK_APP=fitnessapp && export FLASK_ENV=development && FLASK_DEBUG=1 && flask run --cert=adhoc
```
  
#### Backgroun Tasks
- Make sure you have RabitMQ installed and running on your system
- Run the following command to start celery worker and beat for email-reminders

  ```
  celery -A make_celery worker -B --loglevel=info
  ```   
- Note that for email reminders to work, make sure you have created an events in your database and their date is equalt to date of current date. 



```
NOTE!!:
Make sure you have redis install on your local machine for background tasks with celery to work. see https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/install/

If you get error regarding any of the following packages - pymongo and bson, then dont worry we have also been there. Run the following commands to resolve the error :

    pip uninstall bson
    pip uninstall pymongo
    pip install pymongo


```
# Source Code

Link to the repository:
https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp

# Future Scope

1. Bug fixes
2. Timer for every workout
3. Email verification
4. Login with social media
5. Bot updates

# Team Members

<center>
  <table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center"><img src="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/static/img/IMG-8118.jpg" width="300px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Left to Right -  <a href="https://github.com/nayaksyndrome">Chinmay Nayak</a>,  <a href="https://github.com/Shubham-Saboo">Shubham Saboo</a>, <a href="https://github.com/RajatChandak2000">  Rajat Chandak</a>,  <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo">Vibhav Deo</a></b></sub><br /></td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</center>

# Contribution

Please refer the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file for instructions on how to contribute to our repository.

  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues/new/choose">Report Bug</a>
    /
    <a href="https://github.com/VibhavDeo/FitnessApp/issues/new/choose">Request Feature</a>
  </p>

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
